[Music]
[Applause]
so
what is up youtube it's your girl evelyn
and i am back with a season three recap
of wynonna earp
as always i will be spoiling the entire
season
so proceed with caution let's start by
addressing
season two's major cliffhangers the
weird
cult of [ __ ] vibes between nicole
and dolls and the reappearance of mama
erp
aka michelle gibson despite first seeing
her
meditating on the side of a cliff mama
erp hasn't been living
wild and free in the purgatory backwoods
she's
actually locked up tight in purgatory
max and
has been ever since she allegedly ran
off when the girls were young
so how did we see her on the cliff when
she's really in prison
oh no that this it's this whole
this whole crazy thing wynonna has been
visiting her mom on the dl
for quite some time but michelle made
her promise to
never tell waverly for reasons that will
be made clear
soon enough as for nicole and dolls
thankfully they're not bolshar's newest
cult members
when nicole heard bolshar's name last
season it gave her some
unexplainable heebie-jeebies so she
asked dolls to help her research
the former sheriff clooty turns out
every seven years
someone or something massacres a bunch
of people in bolshar's name
and bbd has been covering it up since
the 1920s
as a child nicole attended an ill-fated
music festival in purgatory
but thankfully slipped away before the
bolshar-themed massacre began
afterward bbd swooped in and staged the
whole thing
as a forest fire and nicole subsequently
repressed the memories
until now at the start of season three
it's been four months since the gang
vanquished bolshar spider wives
but there's still no sign of the demon
himself
that is until a bus full of sparkly
vampires
rolls into purgatory the vamps enchant
everyone
then offer up the townsfolk as a
sacrifice to bolshar
causing this season's big bad to slither
out of hiding
the gang easily defeats the hypnotizing
vamps
with the exception of one the count
tessa
aka big nose kate aka
doc's sexy secret wife because
apparently
everyone on this show has a sexy secret
wife
although kate's a vampire she's far from
evil
and her feelings for doc run deep she
sets up house at the
empty gardener estate where she drinks
blood and reads tarot
until she's needed around this time dole
starts feeling bad
and the off-brand bbd serum that jeremy
and rosita cooked up for him last season
is no longer cutting it because
unbeknownst to
everyone without bbd's official secret
sauce
dolls is as good as dead after a fun
side adventure
in which the revenant buffalo bill
kidnaps waverly
bolshar and his demon lieutenant pop up
and in the resulting standoff
dolls sacrifices himself to save the
gang
ex-bbd sergeant ramon quinn a friend of
dolls we've never heard of before
drops in to attend his wake afterward
wynonna sends ramon packing
with instructions to find bbd and
destroy those
pesky blood oath contracts she and the
gang were forced to sign
last season this might be a good time to
check in on mama earp
after wynonna tells waverly the truth
about their mother
waverly pays michelle a visit but turns
out
mama erp is big crazy and threatens to
kill waverly
calling her a demon waverly touches
michelle
and a terrified looking michelle tells
her that the demon
is now unbound soon after mama erp
breaks out of prison and we discover
that when waverly was born
a demon attached itself to her with the
sole purpose
of torturing and killing her michelle
tried to unbind the demon from waverly
but accidentally bound it to herself
instead
setting the bar on fire in the process
but
to the casual observer it looked like
mama erp
was trying to burn down the barn with
waverly inside
which is how she got 20 to life
waverly's
unbound demon twin takes the form of a
woman named jolene
who bakes tasty mind-controlling
pastries and also
tries to kill waverly but jolene's no
match for the irf women and wynonna
waverly and michelle
vanquish her or a tree eats her
either way she's gone back to bolshar
who's
still trying to end humanity he starts
kidnapping people and turning them into
trees for some reason
which is how we meet robin a jazz
historian
moonlighting as a park ranger robin
informs the gang about the
sudden proliferation of bleeding trees
in the forest
and he also catches jeremy's eye
on their first date that's not really a
date they stumble upon an ancient
staircase in the middle of the forest
that disappears at will in the midst of
the gang's investigation
wynonna meets charlie a sexy firefighter
who saves her from a falling tree branch
and
this doesn't bode well for a winona and
doc's on-again
off-again relationship and after wynonna
fails to say the l word doc lets kate
turn him into a vampire
because doc makes terrible terrible
decisions
after robin gets kidnapped by some trees
wynonna and charlie follow his trail
and stumble upon bolshar's human to tree
factory
they take out his minions but bolshar
gets away
back at the homestead waverly questions
her mother about the identity of her
real father
michelle tells waverly that her father's
name is julian
and he was sweet kind and gentle
oh and an angel
unfortunately on the night of waverly's
birth he disappeared
without a trace michelle now feeling
some
type of way questions bobo about
julian's whereabouts
and because bobo knows literally
everything
he tells michelle that her baby daddy
number one
pushed her baby daddy number two out of
the ghost
river triangle and while julian didn't
melt like a revenant
he did lose his memory and as far as
bobo knows
he's still out there wandering michelle
decides to
ditch her girls and go after her angel
boy because
priorities she also lets bobo out of the
well
meanwhile bolshar raises his fave wife
constance clooty
from the dead and sends her out to
terrorize the gang and gather some intel
wynonna takes out constance with
peacemaker and the poor thing
doesn't even put up a fight with the
help of juan carlos journal
the gang figures out that bolshar is
turning folks into trees
so he can use their roots to find the
garden
of eden that's right the ghost river
triangle is home
to the biblical garden of eden and
bolshar
wants in or should i say he wants
back in and he's getting close
all he needs is the key that opens the
door
bolshar traps wynonna and doc inside
some kind of subliminal hellscape
designed to trick wynonna into
relinquishing peacemaker
because turns out peacemaker is the key
to the garden of eden also at some point
the
real mercedes pops up
waverly heals her jacked up face with
bolshar's ring
which is actually julian's ring that
bolshar stole from him
because bolshar is just an enormous
prick
with jeremy and waverly's help wynonna
and doc
break out of bolshar's hellscape but not
before winona
gives a peacemaker bolshar turns
peacemaker into a sword
and inserts it into the staircase but he
still can't enter the garden
you must be mortal to pass through and
bolshar
is definitely not mortal oh and
you guys remember charlie wynonna's most
recent conquest
well long story short he's actually
julian
that's right charlie is julian waverly's
angel daddy and wynonna's daddy daddy
when waverly touches julian with his own
ring his memory returns
and he fills in the last of the blanks
julian was tasked with guarding the
entrance to the garden of eden
alongside fellow angel juan carlo but
when the angel boys realized the
serpent was back in the ghost river
triangle juan carlo took the form of a
priest
and removed the garden's security system
a flaming sword
he searched for a champion to wield the
sword and
defeat the serpent that champion was
wyatt earth
julian takes his place alongside the
earps and because they're all
probably gonna die anyway waverly
proposes to nicole with her daddy's ugly
but super powerful ring
nicole doesn't immediately say yes
probably because she's still getting
over the shock of being
purgatory's newest sheriff after
nedley's untimely death
jk nedley's fine he just retired
volshar and his minions attacked the
earp homestead
and face off against wynonna and her
army of revenants
wynonna convinced the revenants to fight
for her
and she re-buried the ammolite blocking
talisman
so they could enter the homestead but
the battle against bulshar is
mostly a ruse what the demon really
wants
is to steal some of winona's blood which
he does
also his new lieutenant bobo who just
cannot stay out of [ __ ] kills angel baby
julian
and then waverly kills bobo and i have a
feeling that
bobo just might stay dead this time
mostly because bolshar uses winona's
blood to break the earth curse
which means no more revenants not to
mention
breaking the curse makes bolshar mortal
and he can now
enter the garden it also means wynonna
is
no longer the erp heir and no longer has
wyatt's powers
wynonna and bolshar have their final
showdown
mortal to mortal and our girl gets the
upper hand
and vanquishes bolshar but not before he
bites her
injecting her with deadly venom
fortunately
doc pops up seconds later and sucks out
the venom
and while all this is going on a creepy
tree branch
comes out of the garden and kidnaps
waverly wynonna is unable to enter the
garden
but doc can which makes absolutely no
sense because
doc is definitely not mortal unless
you know he somehow is winona returns to
the homestead to
rally the troops except the troops are
missing
and the name valdez is scrawled across
the wall
with no peacemaker no doc and no
powers wynonna meets up with nedley
literally the only person left in
purgatory
and sets off on a mission to rescue her
little sister
and that is it for the recap thank you
guys so much for
watching and i'll see you in the next
one